= require-magic

Utility functions to facilitate importing (require) ruby files in complex Ruby project, such as gem with complex folder hierarchies. 
See unit tests in /test directory to see how to use the tools for the best effect.
Using this toolset should really simplify your require statements and make your application more flexible to change.

== USAGE

require 'require_magic'

# alternatively to only include require_dsl
require 'require_dsl'

Require.magic [path relative to current file location] do |magic|
  # from new location, enter a subdir
  magic.enter [subdir] do |path|        
    magic.require_all('**/*.rb').except(/sound\/*.rb/).require  
  end

  # from new location, enter a subdir
  magic.enter [another subdir] do |path|           
    # use file blobs here
    magic.require_all('**/*.rb').require
  end

  # from new location, enter a subdir
  magic.enter [yet another subdir] do |path|         
    # matching and except are to be used as include and exclude filters
    # they each take a list containing regular expressions and strings
    # string arguments are postfixed with .rb internally if not present  
    magic.require_all('blip/**/*.rb').matching(/_mixin.rb/, /.*\/power/).except(/sound/, /disco/).require
  end

end

Require.magic '../spec/fixtures' do |magic|
  magic.enter 'game' do |path|
    list = magic.require_all('**/*.rb')    
    # puts list.matching('sound', 'network').except(/sound/).show_require(:relative)
    list.matching('sound', 'network').except(/sound/).require
  end
end


== USAGE (Deprecated)
See unit tests for demonstrations of how to use it:

Set basepath to use for require
* required_files = Require.base_path = File.dirname(__FILE__)

To require all files within the top level folder 'data' (non-recursively)
* required_files = Require.folders('data')

Override base_path
* required_files = Require.folders('data', {:base_path => File.dirname(__FILE__) + '/../my/path})

The required_files returned is a list of the paths of the files that were required 

To require all files within the top level folder 'data' (non-recursively) and apply tracing to see output for the process of requiring the files
* required_files = Require.folder 'data'
* required_files = Require.folders 'data'

To require all files within the top level folder 'data' recursively 
* required_files = Require.recursive('data')

To require all files within the top level folders 'data' and 'data2' (non-recursively) 
* required_files = Require.recursive(['data', 'data2'])

To require all files within the top level folders 'data' and 'data2' recursively 
* required_files = Require.recursive(['data', 'data2'])

To require files within the top level folders 'data' and 'data2' and also files within the subdirectory 'blip' if it exists 
* required_files = Require.folders(['data', 'data2'], {:folders => ['blip]})

To require files within 'data/blip' and 'data2/blip' only, NOT including the root files
* required_files = Require.folders(['data', 'data2'], {:folders => ['blip], :ignore_root_files => true})

To require files within 'data' and 'data2' first and then AFTER any files within the subdirectory 'blip' (default order)
* required_files = Require.folders(['data', 'data2'], {:folders => ['blip], :root_files => :before})

To require files within 'data/blip' and 'data2/blip' first and then AFTER any files within 'data' and 'data2' folders (the root files)
* required_files = Require.folders(['data', 'data2'], {:folders => ['blip], :root_files => :after})

To require files within 'data' and 'data2' (the root files) first (BEFORE) and then any files within the subdirectory 'blip'
* required_files = Require.folders(['data', 'data2'], {:folders => ['blip], :root_files => :before})


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
   bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Kristian Mandrup. See LICENSE for details.
